Add `request.variant` API and guides documentation (#50273)
rails/rails: guides/source/action_controller_overview.md

[`query_parameters`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/Request.html#method-i-query_parameters
[`request_parameters`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/Request.html#method-i-request_parameters

#### `request.variant`

> Controllers might need to tailor a response based on context-specific information in a request. For example, controllers responding to requests from a mobile platform might need to render a HTML, JSON, or XML different content than requests from a desktop browser. They can add that context to the requests variant so that views render appropriately. Variant names are arbitrary, and can communicate anything from the request's platform (`:anrdoid`, `:ios`, `:linux`, `:macos`, `:windows`) to its browser (`:chrome`, `:edge`, `:firefox`, `:safari`), to the type of user (`:admin`, `:guest`, `:user`).

Author: Personally, I've only ever really used variants for platform hints, but felt that was too prescriptive. 

Are there other use cases worth highlighting, or would limiting this suggestion to platforms be best?

Author: Responsive design and CSS breakpoints have made the `:tablet`, `:phone`, and `:desktop` suggestion a little outdated.

Reviewer: Not sure if we would like to add this use case but I found variant to be very helpful when implementing a new design or in combination with a feature flag when the feature is a major revamp of a view. One of the advantage of using variants it that from an I18n point of view the path remains the same so we don't broke the translation lazy keys.

> Controllers might need to tailor a response based on context-specific information in a request. For example, controllers responding to requests from a mobile platform might need to render a HTML, JSON, or XML different content than requests from a desktop browser. They can add that context to the requests variant so that views render appropriately. Variant names are arbitrary, and can communicate anything from the request's platform (`:anrdoid`, `:ios`, `:linux`, `:macos`, `:windows`) to its browser (`:chrome`, `:edge`, `:firefox`, `:safari`), to the type of user (`:admin`, `:guest`, `:user`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Controllers might need to tailor a response based on context-specific information in a request. For example, controllers responding to requests from a mobile platform might need to render different content than requests from a desktop browser. One strategy to accomplish this is by customizing a request's variant. Variant names are arbitrary, and can communicate anything from the request's platform (`:anrdoid`, `:ios`, `:linux`, `:macos`, `:windows`) to its browser (`:chrome`, `:edge`, `:firefox`, `:safari`), to the type of user (`:admin`, `:guest`, `:user`).
```

There's two suggestions in here:
- I think the first sentence ended up containing the text of two different revisions, so I removed one
- I tweaked the middle sentence to transition from the why to the how a little smoother

You can set the [`request.variant`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/Http/MimeNegotiation.html#method-i-variant-3D) in a `before_action`:

```ruby
request.variant = :tablet if request.user_agent.include?("iPad")
```

Responding with a variant in a controller action is like responding with a format:

```ruby
# app/controllers/projects_controller.rb

def show
  # ...
  respond_to do |format|
    format.html do |html|
      html.tablet                         # renders app/views/projects/show.html+tablet.erb
      html.phone { extra_setup; render }  # renders app/views/projects/show.html+phone.erb
    end
  end
end
```

> Provide separate templates for each format and variant:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A separate template should be created for each format and variant:
```

* `app/views/projects/show.html.erb`
* `app/views/projects/show.html+tablet.erb`
* `app/views/projects/show.html+phone.erb`

You can also simplify the variants definition using the inline syntax:

```ruby
respond_to do |format|
  format.html.tablet
  format.html.phone  { extra_setup; render }
end
```

The [`request.variant`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/Http/MimeNegotiation.html#method-i-variant) method returns an instance of [`ActiveSupport::ArrayInquirer`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/ArrayInquirer.html):

```ruby
request.variant = :phone
request.variant.phone?  # => true
request.variant.tablet? # => false

request.variant = [:phone, :tablet]
request.variant.phone?                  # => true
request.variant.desktop?                # => false
request.variant.any?(:phone, :desktop)  # => true
request.variant.any?(:desktop, :watch)  # => false

> ```

Reviewer 2: I would leave this bit out. I think the controller example is a good way to introduce the concept of variants from a guide standpoint but the `ArrayInquirer` detail feels like it belongs in the API doc.

Reviewer 2: My intention was to remove everything highlighted here, do you think we should keep the predicate API?

[`query_parameters`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/Request.html#method-i-query_parameters
[`request_parameters`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/Request.html#method-i-request_parameters

#### `request.variant`

> Controllers might need to tailor a response based on context-specific

Reviewer 2: When rendering to HTML I don't think the width is actually taken into account at all, it appears to combine paragraphs into a single `<p>` no matter how long the lines are.

I'm pro-80 characterss because I tend to vertically split and my editor ends up ~90 characters wide so editing guides is worse at longer line lengths.

information in a request. For example, when a controller responds to a request
from a mobile platform, it might need to render a variation on the HTML, JSON,
or XML templates it'd use to respond to a request from a web platform. They can
incorporate that's necessary to make that decision into the request's
**variant**.

The request variant is a specialization of the request format, like `:tablet`,
`:phone`, or `:desktop`.

You can set the [`request.variant`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/Http/MimeNegotiation.html#method-i-variant-3D) in a `before_action`:

```ruby

> request.variant = :tablet if request.user_agent.include? "iPad"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
request.variant = :tablet if request.user_agent.include?("iPad")
```

```

Responding to variants in the action is the same as responding to formats:

```ruby
# app/controllers/projects_controller.rb

def show
  # ...
  respond_to do |format|
    format.html do |html|
      html.tablet # renders app/views/projects/show.html+tablet.erb

>       html.phone { extra_setup; render ... }

Reviewer 3: This might break rubocop because I don't think `render ...` is valid Ruby.

Guides with code-fenced blocks of `ruby` are actually syntax checked and linted, FYI.

    end
  end
end
```

Provide separate templates for each format and variant:

> ```
> app/views/projects/show.html.erb
> app/views/projects/show.html+tablet.erb
> app/views/projects/show.html+phone.erb
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `app/views/projects/show.html.erb`
* `app/views/projects/show.html+tablet.erb`
* `app/views/projects/show.html+phone.erb`
```
